# Sephora Skincare Description Marketing vs Product Quality Perception

This project is exploring customer perception of several types of skincare products, namely moisturizer, sunscreens, and cleansers, as prices increase, according to reviews submitted on Sephora’s website through sentiment analysis.

## Contents

This repository contains instructions on obtaining and cleaning the data used, code that completes and creates visualizations from the sentiment analysis, and licensing and reference information.

# Software and Platform

This project was completed using the Python programming language within VS Code (with Jupyter extension) and Google Colab. The platform used was Mac. If using VS Code to reproduce results, a Python kernel will need to be used in order to use Python and  import the packages used in the scripts.

# Documentation

Contents of this repository include:

- README.md: a file containing all information about the files within the repository
- LICENSE.md: a file citing the terms under which this repository may be used and cited
- DATA folder: a folder containing the following 3 files
  - Data Instructions.pdf: a pdf file detailing how to obtain and clean the data
  - Skincare_df dataset: a partial dataset containing information about selected products
  - product_info dataset: one of the original datasets detailing several aspects of many Sephora products
- SCRIPTS folder: a folder containing the following files
  - Sentiment_review_analysis.ipynb: a file completing the sentiment analysis on the reviews about each product
  - data_construction.ipynb: a file compiling and cleaning the dataset for analysis
- OUTPUT folder: folder containing all of the outputs generated by this project


# Reproducing Results

In order to reproduce the results of this study, first read and follow the instructions in the Data Instructions pdf located in the Data folder. Output the resulting dataset onto your device. Then read the resulting dataset into the Sentiment_review_analysis by replacing the value within the parenthesis of the read_csv() function with the file path to the dataset on your device. Run the edited Sentiment_review_analysis file and the analysis will be complete and compiled into a dataset that can also be outputted to your device.

COME BACK AND FINISH AFTER CLEANING UP



# References
[1] “Welcome to Vadersentiment’s documentation!,” Welcome to VaderSentiment’s
documentation! - VaderSentiment 3.3.1 documentation,
https://vadersentiment.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ [accessed Sep. 13, 2024].

[2] Nady Inky, "Sephora Products and Skincare Reviews", March, 2023, https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nadyinky/sephora-products-and-skincare-reviews/data?select=reviews_750-1250.csv [Accessed Sep. 20, 2024].
